---
layout: single
title:  "The European Wrap-Up - International Women's Day 2021"
date:   2021-04-24 18:00:00 +0700
categories: kotlin multiplatform, talks
tags: kotlin multiplatform, IWD, Women Techmakers
keywords: kotlin multiplatform, IWD, Women Techmakers, kmm
author_profile: true
permalink: /talks/2021-04-24-iwd-europe/
---
{% include video id="oP5EVGboov0" provider="youtube" %}


Kotlin Multiplatform is a modern, powerful tool for multiplatform development. The main idea of Kotlin Multiplatform, as well as other cross-platform SDKs, is to optimize development by writing code once and share it between different platforms. The developer can define what part of code to make common and shared: just data models or whole business logic and even architecture.By default, KMM is not designed to create common UI in application, so basically it should be implemented in native parts, special for iOS and Android. Although other cross-platform tools, such as Flutter and ReactNative, provide capabilities to create cross-platform common UI for the whole app.However, there could be some potential solutions to create common and shared UI with Kotlin Multiplatform SDK. 

In my talk I'm going to present you some approaches to deal with it.Kotlin Multiplatform (KMM) is a modern powerful tool for cross-platform development. It allows you to use a single codebase for the business logic and share it between your iOS and Android apps. The developer can easily make a choice what part of code to define as common: from data models to whole business logic and common architecture solution. By default UI for KMM project should be implemented in native apps, because it uses too specific platform code. Though most cross-platform solutions provide a mechanism to create common UI.In my talk I would like to present several approaches to create common UI in Kotlin Multiplatform shared code and share it with iOS and Android apps. Also some tools and tips to optimize possible solutions.